Informational Interview Questions
What are your main responsibilities as a...? web developer
● What is a typical day (or week) like for you? 
We go through a grooming session for what kind of work we will be doing for the next two weeks.
then we have a planning session that shows what work will be asigned to whom and we work on that story untill we complete it or until the end of the sprint happens.
If it is ready you will demo it at the end of the sprint to stackholders and your team. 
● What do you like most about your work? 
    I like the challange each new feature or refactor that comes to us through our product manager.
● What do you like least about your work?
    I guess I could use more work on my presenations and making sure I remember to hit all the points of each feature being made. 
    Probably my least liked thing but very important so I take extra time and effort to prepare for this. 
● What kinds of problems do you deal with?
    Bugs in code or if the app has gone down so we have an on call that takes care of that. 
● What kinds of decisions do you make?
    I have made what kind of data flow would be best for a new feature that is wanted and design issues or conversations. 
● How does your position fit within the organization/career field/industry?
    It gave me experience with the working under the agile methodologies and working on a team where paired programming was encouraged used a lot with our team. 
● How does your job affect your general lifestyle?
    When I was going into office it was a commute to get there but overall has had a good balance of work time and living life. 
    Although the occasional all hands happen if something has gone really wrong with our applications that support.
● What current issues and trends in the field should I know about/be aware
of?
    what techonlogies are being used most now days. 
● What are some common career paths in this field?
    software development and web development. 
● What kinds of accomplishments tend to be valued and rewarded in this
field?
    Making a well rounded solution and having it work as intended. Finding a more effective way of doing something so it is more clean and more reliable. 
    coming up with new ideas to tackle different issues that come up. 
● What related fields do you think I should consider looking into?
    operations and Software engineering. along with Web development
● How did you become interested in this field?
    I saw a movie with coding in it when I had just graduated from high school and that is how I choose my major for collage. 
● How did you begin your career?
    I had a internship with express scripts before i graduated collage and they hired me after I graduated.
● How do most people get into this field? What are common entry-level jobs?
    any development wether it be software or web development. and most people i feel go into internships or have connections. people don’t necisarily need a bachelors degree can get cirtificates. 
● What steps would you recommend I take to prepare to enter this field?
    I am doing a bootcamp right now for practice and to get back into the swing of developing and using my skills. 
● How relevant to your work is your undergraduate major?
    My bachelors degree is very relevant to web development. 
● What kind of education, training, or background does your job require?
    not always a bachelors degree but it helps and some companies will accept certificated if they can show that they can do the work and know what they are doing. 
● What skills, abilities, and personal attributes are essential to success in
your job/this field?
    good in at least 1 or 2 languages. having had practice in a professional level. 
● What is the profile of the person most recently hired at my level?
    someone with a good portfolio to showcase their skills to employers. 
● What are the most effective strategies for seeking a position in this field?
    applying to ample amount of closly related and about the same skill level as what i am looking for. there is a big networking aspect too that would be able to help get a good word in at different companies. 
● Can you recommend trade journals, magazines or professional
associations which would be helpful for my professional development?
    not supperly if most of someones work is through their job most big comapnies will not share their code for their applications or allow a sharing of it with people outside the company. 
● If you could do it all over again, would you choose the same path for
yourself? If not, what would you change?
    I would choose the same path but I dont think I would take the 2 year break with operations at mastercard since it has made it more difficult to get back to development. 
● I’ve read that the entry-level salary range for this field is usually in the range
of ______? Does this fit with what you’ve seen? (Don’t ask about the
person’s actual salary.)
for entry level jobs of what i am looking for i think I have about the right expectation. If anything some jobs out there for mid level jobs have been higher than what i am asking. 
● What advice would you give someone who is considering this type of job
(or field)?
    If you dont already have a bachelors go with the certificate and self tought stuff. Just make sure that you have a good portfolio to show off what exactly you can do to an employer. 
● Can you suggest anyone else I could contact for additional information?
    There are some good beginners youtube tutorials that can give you an idea about how this field will be like i would suggest checking those out. If you dont know anyone in the industry to really pick their minds I would turn to the youtube route. 